Cooking Classy
Search
Find a recipe
Submit
Recipes
Videos
About
Subscribe
Home
Recipes
Toggle submenu
Videos
About
Subscribe
Contact
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
YouTube
Search
Find a recipe
Submit
16 Quick & Easy 30 Minute Recipes! (plus weekly recipe updates)
Your email
Your email
Home » Recipes » Soups
Vegetable Soup
Published March 11, 2019. Updated September 20, 2024
This post may contain affiliate links. Read our disclosure policy.

Jump to Recipe
This Vegetable Soup has become one of my most popular soup recipes and for good reason! It’s healthy, it’s comforting, and 1,000 times better than what you’ll get in a can! Full of flavor and so easy to make—you can’t go wrong with a big warm bowl of vegetable soup.

To make it a cozy meal consider serving this with homemade 1 Hour Dinner Rolls or No Knead Bread.

Single serving of healthy vegetable soup in a white bowl set over a white plate. Set on a dark wooden table with a red napkin to the side.


WANT TO SAVE THIS RECIPE?
Enter your email address and we'll send it straight to your inbox!
Email Address
 
The Best Vegetable Soup
Not only is this soup delicious, but it’s also so easy to make. It just takes some chopping of ingredients and a bit of simmering until you’ve got a soup everyone will love!

This is a recipe you’ll definitely want to add to your dinner or lunch rotation. And it yields a pot full and makes great leftovers!

What Vegetables Should I Add to Vegetable Soup?
You can put whatever vegetables you like in this soup, from seasonal fresh veggies to frozen ones. Here’s a list of what I used;

carrots
celery
tomatoes
potatoes
green beans
corn
peas
yellow onion and garlic

You may also want to stir in spinach or kale right towards the end of simmering. Sweet potato or butternut would be a fun autumn soup version. I sometimes like to add kidney beans or cannellini beans for more protein and texture.

Pot full of easy homemade Vegetable Soup.


How to Make Vegetable Soup – Watch the Video!
 

This soup is jam-packed with veggies making it a healthy dinner choice.

I had two bowls then came back before bed for a third because I liked it so much. I love that it uses half fresh veggies and half frozen so you still get all that freshness but have the ease of pre-cut frozen veggies too.

During the summer when you have all the fresh veggies in your refrigerator definitely feel free to use all fresh instead.

Can I Make This Soup in a Crockpot?
Yes. To make it in a crockpot saute onions and carrots for a few minutes, add garlic saute 1 minute longer. Add to slow cooker along with potatoes, tomatoes, green beans, potatoes, herbs, broth, salt and pepper. Cook until veggies are tender on high heat for about 3 hours or low heat for about 6 – 7 hours. Add peas and corn during the last 30 minutes.

This is also a great instant pot vegetable soup recipe! Use your instant pot to saute your aromatics and then add all other vegetables to the pressure cooker. Be sure to securely lock the lid, then use the manual valve to release pressure when done.

Can I Freeze Vegetable Soup?
Yes. This soup freezes really well and reheats well. Store in an airtight container in the fridge or freezer.


Ladle full of homemade healthy vegetable soup.


Adding Extra Flavor – Herbs And Spices To Add
This soup has a mild seasoning blend to it which I prefer (because it lets the flavor of the vegetables shine) but you can definitely add more herb flavor or spices to taste if you want a greater depth of flavor. Here’s a few ideas of what you could add:

Fresh herbs or dried herbs such as basil, thyme, oregano, or marjoram.
Dried herb blends such as Italian seasoning or herbs de Provence.
Red pepper flakes will add a spicy kick.
Paprika or a curry powder.
Add a parmesan rind and simmer.
Spritz with fresh lemon juice.
More Veggie Soup Recipes You’ll Love:
Vegetable Beef Soup
Slow Cooker Minestrone
Mexican Vegetable Soup
Super Easy Cauliflower Vegetable Soup
Cabbage Soup
Italian Vegetable Lentil Soup
Sausage And Vegetable Soup
Follow Cooking Classy
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
YouTube

16 Quick & Easy 30 Minute Recipes! (plus weekly recipe updates)
Your email
Your email
Single serving of vegetable soup in a white bowl set over a white plate. Set on a dark wooden table with a red napkin to the side.
4.95 from 415 votes
Print Recipe
Vegetable Soup
This Vegetable Soup has become one of my most popular soup recipes and for good reason! It's healthy, it's comforting and 1,000 times better than what you'll get in a can! Makes 15 cups.
Watch the video

Servings: 8 servings
Prep
15minutes minutes
Cook
40minutes minutes
Ready in: 55minutes minutes
Ingredients

2 Tbsp olive oil
1 1/2 cups chopped yellow onion (1 medium)
2 cups peeled and chopped carrots (about 5)
1 1/4 cups chopped celery (about 3)
4 cloves garlic , minced
4 (14.5 oz) cans low-sodium chicken broth or vegetable broth
2 (14.5 oz) cans diced tomatoes (undrained)
3 cups peeled and 1/2-inch thick diced potatoes (from about 3 medium)
1/3 cup chopped fresh parsley
2 bay leaves
1/2 tsp dried thyme, or 1 Tbsp fresh thyme leaves
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 1/2 cups chopped frozen or fresh green beans
1 1/4 cups frozen or fresh corn
1 cup frozen or fresh peas
Instructions

Heat olive oil in a large pot over medium-high heat. 
Add onions, carrots, and celery and saute 4 minutes then add garlic and saute 30 seconds longer.
Add in broth, tomatoes, potatoes, parsley, bay leaves, thyme and season with salt and pepper to taste.*
Bring to a boil, then add green beans. 
Reduce heat to medium-low, cover and simmer until potatoes are almost fully tender, about 20 - 30 minutes. 
Add corn and peas and cook 5 minutes longer. Serve warm.
